# Non-contact Heart Rate Measurement
The techniques used by the application are face monitoring and  independent component separation of photoplethysmographic signals collected as input. The dedicated camera inbuilt in the smartphone is utilised in order to track the face of the subject and subsequent facial monitoring by which it can gather input information from the result.This information is then decomposed to receive independent signals which are further modified to utilise blind source separation techniques. Determination of heart rate can then be collated from these individual signals.
One of the primary reasons for selecting this particular domain of research was guided by the fact that heart rate detection applications have an extremely diverse range of use cases and can be employed in the medical sector strongly in the future. After conducting a comprehensive literature review, we were almost shocked to see the limited number of official publications that have been working on similar techniques to measure heart rate, especially absolute non-contact forms. With coronary disease patients constantly increasing, it becomes almost vital to have a quick and easy method to be able to keep a check on the body’s most important physiological parameter. In essence, being able to monitor one’s heart rate is a natural right in its own sense, and must not require the help of medical personal or require that entire environment and costly equipment. The proposed methodology aims to ease the entire process with increased smartphone penetration, and also attempts to reach to the masses.
